>> Jen Kramer: The first thing that
I'm gonna talk about is CSS Calc().
What is it exactly,
anyone wanna define Calc?
>> Speaker 2: A method for
calculating values in CSS.
>> Jen Kramer: It's a way to do
math in CSS, directly in CSS, okay?
That's basically it.
And these are the things that you can do.
Addition, subtraction,
multiplication, and division.
In other words, no exponents,
I actually have an example for
you later where exponents would have
been really, really helpful, okay?
[LAUGH] But addition,
subtraction, multiplication, and
division are what we
have to work with here.
And you can do the length, frequency,
angle, number, time, integer, okay?
Remember that time, or
frequency, and so forth,
those are generally
associated with animation.
Some of the other things like length,
or numbers, and integers, and so forth,
those are associated with all
kinds of different CSS properties.
And the way Calc is gonna look
is it's something like this.
So you're going to display your property,
and then you'll say the word calc, and
then you'll do whatever math
you want to do inside of that.
Anyone want to make a comment
on that particular line of code?
A 100% minus 80 pixels.
Anyone want to say anything about that?
Yes, David?
>> Speaker 2: Units are different, and
you're gonna struggle to
resolve that in the browser.
>> Jen Kramer: Units are different and
we're gonna struggle to resolve
that to the browser, anyone agree?
>> Speaker 2: Now,
I thought that was the cool part about it.
>> Jen Kramer: Exactly, that is the cool
part about it because Sass will [SOUND],
Sass does not like that kind of thing.
You have to have the same kinds of
units when you do math with Sass, but
with CSS Calc,
It is very happy to do that math for you.
It will in fact do that now,
and it will not blow up, okay?
So let's talk about compatibility,
I took this screenshot on August 9th.
So this is what compatibility
looks like at this point in time,
usually when we talk about
compatibility we really mean IE, and
that's tend to be true, it's a little bit
buggy in IE like all the good things are.
[LAUGH] Okay?
But 96% support globally at this point
in time, according to can I use, okay?
So anyone wanna think about what are some
of the big advantages that we can
work with Calc over Sass.
This one, okay?
So again, you can do weird math.
Remember that if you
do have to support IE,
you can always put in
something right before it.
IE willl actually render what
equals 90% in this particular case,
it would look at width of this Calc thing,
and
it would just, I don't know what that is,
and ignore it and move on, right?
If we do have people here who
still need to support IE, so
that's one way that you
can go about doing that.
This is also a very nice way
to document your math, okay?
Where did you get that
random looking number?
[LAUGH] How often have you said that
as you were looking at something?
Why did we say this
weird string of numbers?
Yes?
Okay, so
this is a nice way that you can do that.
There's more reading here at
CSS-Tricks as always great resource,
so we'll talk to you
a little bit about that.
So here's one of the advantages.
Again, from that same article
in this particular example,
we're floating two things
next to each other, okay?
Back in the old days, our heads used to
explode because one was 40, one was 60.
We of course, wanna gap in between
the things, we put in the gap,
and then it would wrap onto the next line.
Cuz it actually adds up
to be more than a 100%,
once you put the gap in place, right?
Okay, so now we can just simply say 40 and
then 60 minus 1em.
Isn't that great?
And other things float next to each other.
Wow, that already makes your life easier,
yeah?
Here's documentation of weird numbers,
I don't know why you build a seven column
grid system, but maybe you'd want to,
and where did you get 14.2587%?
Designer?
What were you thinking?
Well, Designer did all this math right and
the math looks like this, really easy.
All we do is take 100% divided by seven,
that's one box.
If we want it to be twice that wide,
we take 100% divided by
seven multiplied by two.
Yeah, that's where the weird
numbers come from.
So now, we've documented our math really,
really nicely.
So that's something that
we can do with Calc.
There's a couple of quirky things
about Calc that you need to remember.
And that tends to be
writing these things out.
What I would suggest is that
you always put a space around
whatever your operator is.
So space, plus sign, space,
whatever things you were adding together.
The reason why is because
remember that in CSS,
the slash operator can be used
in other places in CSS, okay?
That's one of the things
you need to remember.
Here, it's gonna have a hard time
determining what is a minus something and
what is a negative number.
So that's another reason
to go on ahead and
put in this whitespace around it, okay?
And you can nest Calc statements
inside of each other as well.
Calc inside of a Calc inside of a Calc
becomes effectively parentheses,
all right?
So far so good?
And you can combine it with Sass.
So if you're doing something in Sass and
you wanna actually use Calc,
this is the way you'd go about
pulling in a Sass variable.
This is the syntax that you use,
all right?
So remember, Sass variables are declared
with the dollar sign, all right?
Here, the way we're going to render
that if we're using actually Calc.
We're gonna put the curly
brackets around that variable and
a pound sign in front of it.
You've probably seen that syntax
before in other applications in Sass.
It indicates the CSS take
the value of that variable, yeah?
Everybody good so far?
Okay, anyone remember
Please Excuse My Dear Aunt Sally?
I always ask this question and people are
like, Please Excuse My Dear Aunt Sally,
I never heard of that.
It must have been an exclusive thing
to elementary schools in Virginia
where I grew up.
So Please Excuse My Dear Aunt Sally
is the order of operations, right?
Do your parentheses first,
then your exponents, and
then multiplication, left to right,
addition and subtraction,
left to right,
that's how we used to remember it.
So when you see something wild and
crazy like that,
we're calculating something really weird,
remember your order of operations.
So multiply the things and
then add them together.
So basically a little bit about Calc,
use it anywhere to perform
your number calculations.
Don't forget about your whitespace.
You can mix and match units, that's
the big differentiator from Sass, okay?
You can use parentheses or
nest your calc() statements.
Remember your order of operations and
it's well supported by browsers in use.